---
layout: with-sidebar
sidebar: documentation
title: Row Identifiers
audience: docs
---

## What is a Row Identifier?

Socrata datasets are essentially a collection of rows. Each row can be uniquely designated by its "row identifier", much like a driver's license number or social security number identifies an individual. For those familiar with database concepts, they essentially act the same way as [primary keys](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Primary_key).

## Internal Identifiers vs Publisher-Specified Identifiers

Row identifiers come in two flavors:

- Internal identifiers are auto-generated by the Socrata platform every time a new row is created.
- Publisher-specified identifiers are configured by the dataset owner and use a field of unique values within the dataset as the row identifier.

<div class="alert alert-info">
  <p>Depending on what dataset you're accessing, internal row identifiers may be simple integers, or alphanumeric strings. There's no difference between the two in how you use them.</p>
  <p>To learn more about how to access internal row identifiers, read the <a href="/docs/system-fields.html">System Fields</a> documentation.</p>
</div>

## Retrieving Rows By Their Identifiers

To use a row identifier to look up a row, simply append it to the resource endpoint for that dataset. For example, to look up row `row-rmrx_uexf_ry4c` from the [Chicago Salaries Dataset](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/tt4n-kn4t) dataset using its row identifier:

{% include tryit.html domain='data.cityofchicago.org' path='/resource/tt4n-kn4t/row-rmrx_uexf_ry4c.json' %}

In contrast, the [Chicago Crimes](https://data.cityofchicago.org/d/ijzp-q8t2) dataset is configured to use a publisher-specified identifier. To look up the earthquake with the `id` of `10666780`:

{% include tryit.html domain='data.cityofchicago.org' path='/resource/6zsd-86xi/10666780.json' %}

## Establishing a Publisher-Specified Identifier

<p class="alert alert-info">Setting a row identifier requires that you are either the owner of a dataset, or that you've been granted a role of Publisher or Administrator on a Socrata customer site. Basically, if you can't modify the dataset, you can't set a row identifier.</p>

A publisher-specified row identifier can be established for any Socrata dataset. A common column to use as a row identifier is an 'ID' column with some kind of number or code that uniquely identifies that row of data. For example, the 'Inspection ID' column of [Chicago's Food Inspections dataset](https://data.cityofchicago.org/Health-Human-Services/Food-Inspections/4ijn-s7e5) is a Publisher-specified row identifier.

### How to Set a Row Identifier

See [this helpful guide](https://support.socrata.com/hc/en-us/articles/360008065493) on how to set a row identifier in Socrata.